docs: tw568-arbitrum-chain-feature-config-structure (#2802)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/launch-arbitrum-chain/features/advanced/choose-custom-delay-inbox-finality.mdx

## Key concepts

- **Delayed Inbox**: A contract on the parent chain where users can submit transactions (e.g., retryable tickets for token bridges or direct calls) to be force-included on the child chain if the sequencer delays them. These are held until the sequencer releases them based on parent chain progress.
- **Finality**: The point at which a Delayed Inbox transaction is irreversibly executable on the child chain. By default, this depends on L1 finality (e.g., Ethereum blocks confirming a batch from Arbitrum One or a Data Availability Certificate/DACert from Nova), taking ~10-60 minutes.
- **L2 vs. L1 Finality**: L3 chains can be configured to rely on the parent L2's quicker "soft finality" (~1-15 minutes) instead of waiting for deeper L1 confirmations, or to reduce L2 block waits for even faster processing.
- **Relevant Flags**:
  - `--node.delayed-sequencer.use-merge-finality=false`: Disables L1 dependency, using only L2 finality.
  - `--node.delayed-sequencer.finalize-distance=1`: Sets the number of L2 block confirmations needed (default is higher; 1 enables ~1-minute finality).

## What It Means to Configure Delayed Inbox Finality

> This configuration configures the sequencer to release Delayed Inbox messages earlier, prioritizing speed over maximum security. For instance, in a default setup, a deposit from Ethereum to an L3 (via L2 settlement) waits for L1 to finalize the L2's batch posting. Enabling L2-only finality skips this, releasing after L2 confirmations (e.g., when a DACert posts on Nova). Further reducing the finalize-distance minimizes L2 waits, allowing near-instant execution but exposing the chain to parent re-orgs if unconfirmed blocks revert. It's ideal for low-latency apps but requires monitoring for re-org events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration sets up the sequencer to release Delayed Inbox messages earlier, prioritizing speed over maximum security. For instance, in a default setup, a deposit from Ethereum to an L3 (via L2 settlement) waits for L1 to finalize the L2's batch posting. Enabling L2-only finality skips this, releasing after L2 confirmations (e.g., when a DACert posts on Nova). Further reducing the finalize-distance minimizes L2 waits, allowing near-instant execution but exposing the chain to parent re-orgs if unconfirmed blocks revert. It's ideal for low-latency apps but requires monitoring for re-org events.
```

- **Delayed Inbox**: A contract on the <a data-quicklook-from="parent-chain">parent chain</a> where users can submit transactions (e.g., retryable tickets for token bridges or direct calls) to be force-included on the child chain if the sequencer delays them. These are held until the sequencer releases them based on parent chain progress.
- **Finality**: The point at which a Delayed Inbox <a data-quicklook-from="transaction">transaction</a> is irreversibly executable on the child chain. By default, this depends on L1 finality (e.g., Ethereum blocks confirming a <a data-quicklook-from="batch">batch</a> from <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum">Arbitrum</a> One or a <a data-quicklook-from="data-availability-certificate">Data Availability Certificate</a>/DACert from Nova), taking ~10-60 minutes.
- **L2 vs. L1 Finality**: L3 chains can be configured to rely on the parent L2's quicker "soft finality" (~1-15 minutes) instead of waiting for deeper L1 confirmations, or to reduce <a data-quicklook-from="l2-block">L2 block</a> waits for even faster processing.
- **Relevant Flags**:
  - `--node.delayed-sequencer.use-merge-finality=false`: Disables L1 dependency, using only L2 finality.

>   - `--node.delayed-sequencer.finalize-distance=1`: Sets the number of L2 block confirmations needed (default is higher; 1 enables ~1-minute finality).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `--node.delayed-sequencer.finalize-distance=1`: Sets the number of L2 block confirmations needed (default is higher; 1 enables ~1-minute finality; only works when `use-merge-finality` sets to false).
```
